---
title: 'Quickly&#8230;'
author: Josh Street
layout: post
permalink: /2004/08/03/quickly/
categories:
  - Before WordPress
tags:
  - Dyne:bolic
  - embedded branding/advertising
---
I haven&#8217;t had time to write the last too long, so here&#8217;s a bit of what&#8217;s been happening:

- Substance abuse.&nbsp; Lots of it.&nbsp; Acrylic paints are fun.&nbsp; My carpet would beg to differ.  
- Assessment shenanigans, with drafts being marked as finals, and finals drafts, and all kinds of chaos.  
- After about six weeks of "decision making" (read: general unproductivity and unwilingness to make decisions on both our parts), myself and a friend finally started reading through Proverbs today.&nbsp; Which was excellent! if a little distraction ridden &#8211; change of venue required, methinks&#8230;  
- My favorite pen, the BIC Prise/Roller, changed the design!&nbsp; I like this one more, because it feels smoother &#8211; the embedded branding/advertising for BIC has been removed from the barrel of the pen.&nbsp; I&#8217;m fussy about such things.  
- I ran over my phone bill by a bit this month.&nbsp; I can&#8217;t remember if I&#8217;ve posted that already, it&#8217;s been too long since I&#8217;ve looked around here.  
- I have three new assessments currently pending; physics, business studies and another one for extension.&nbsp; I think the fabled "one a week" thing is starting to happen.&nbsp; Meh, not as bad as trials! ;)

p.s. to all year 12 people reading this: good luck with trials, don&#8217;t stress too much, try to maintain sanity ;)&nbsp; I&#8217;m thinking of and praying for you.

**Note to self:** (and interested others)  
Check out <http://syllable.org> sometime, download and try latest CD out.&nbsp; Possibly Dyne:bolic also.