---
title: Returned.
author: Josh Street
excerpt: ...I enjoy knowing I can blog from anywhere in the world, nearly as much as I enjoy knowing that I can choose not to...
layout: post
permalink: /2004/10/04/returned/
categories:
  - General
  - Life
tags:
  - Google
  - internet access
  - SP500
  - sydney
  - web development
---
Yarrr. I&#8217;m back from my unannounced holiday, to a mass of email, an overflowing RSS reader, and a computer which is booting intermittently. I want to go back on holidays.

Yes, I did have Internet access where I was staying. *I enjoy knowing I can blog from anywhere in the world, nearly as much as I enjoy knowing that I can choose not to.* And so I didn&#8217;t &#8212; I realised that I hadn&#8217;t announced my departure a few days back, but decided it wasn&#8217;t worth writing home about. This was a holiday from blogging as much as anything else; not that blogging is something to be escaped, necessarily, but it is good to get away from on occasion.

And whilst I was escaping, I immersed myself in books, and cameras, amongst other things. Of books, more shall be said later, if at all. Of cameras, more details are coming, I promise &#8212; along with pictures, so I hope. &#8220;Other things&#8221; encompass more toys, including the pending arrival of some semi-vintage (read: old, but relatively intact and refurbished) speakers; for those who care, and/or are familiar with such things, I&#8217;ve got a pair of Acoustic Research AR14 2-way speakers in storage, which I&#8217;m hoping to put to good use once this damn house is sold, or at least taken off the market. They sound decidedly warm, although the HF is quite distinctive. Mid-range is a tad lacking, but certainly no worse that what I&#8217;m currently using.

So, I&#8217;m looking forwards to that. As I am looking forwards to playing with this camera (an SLR) over the next few days. I haven&#8217;t time to upload pictures of the camera itself right now, but it&#8217;s an old Pentax Asahi SP500 model &#8212; if you care *that* much, Google&#8217;s number one match for &#8220;Pentax Asahi&#8221; at the time of writing returns a website which brandishes a few decent pictures of the camera. As far as I can tell, the camera itself is about 30 years old, and is in pretty decent nick&#8230; I&#8217;ve got two lenses for it, details of which will be posted later, and a UV filter for one of those lenses.

It&#8217;s a 35mm camera, and was apparently last used in the early &#8217;90s&#8230; Because I couldn&#8217;t bring myself just to waste the mostly-unused film which remained in the camera, I fear that some rather good shots have gone to waste on the aged film which I&#8217;ve used for the last two days. We shall see.

Aside from all of that, I&#8217;m back in Sydney. Exciting things are happening in the realm of web development, away from this website, which shall be unveiled in the weeks to come. Until later, I&#8217;m going to sleep&#8230;

**EDIT:** Looks as though someone was screwing with Google&#8217;s indexing system as I searched for &#8220;Pentax Asahi&#8221; &#8212; the aforementioned page disappeared into the void. For reference, the page was <http://www.talboys.fsnet.co.uk/roderickt/pentaxcdfiles.htm>.