---
title: GPG/PGP
author: Josh Street
layout: post
permalink: /2005/10/14/gpgpgp/
categories:
  - Geek
tags:
  - encryption
  - public key
---
I spent fifteen minutes figuring the whole GPG thing out today, and, I have to say, it makes lots more sense once you&#8217;ve attempted it once. [This article from <acronym title="Linux User Group at Georgia Tech">LUG@GT</acronym>][1] in particular is perhaps the most straightforward piece I&#8217;ve ever read on this matter, but that&#8217;s dually a comment on the literary capabilities of the <acronym title="Free or Open Source Software">F/OSS</acronym> community as a whole, yet simultaneously an endorsement of the article itself.

The one thing I still don&#8217;t quite get is how a message &#8212; speaking of emails, here &#8212; can be considered as &#8220;authentic&#8221; as a result of its GPG signature. The signature varies based on the content of the message, and somehow this signature can be considered authentic. Published or not, I still struggle to see how a message can be authoratively considered authentic or otherwise based on a public authentication method seemingly in a state of flux. Perhaps the message content when compared against the key yields [the email address and name][2], against which the message is compared?

If so, in the page linked to above there is (another link to) a [full public key][3] not represented in the email message that is supposedly authenticated&#8230; not even in its abbreviated hex form (or whatever the heck (hex? :p) 0x426B3C19 is meant to represent &#8212; that&#8217;s my public key, by the way.)

Anyone who knows how this stuff works got a better/clearer explanation for me? I can understand or at least interact with the encryption side of things without difficulty&#8230; I just struggle to see how this signature can be in any way meaningful, when it changes whilst supposedly representing some constant. I&#8217;ve proposed a possibility in this post, of course, but I can&#8217;t prove it&#8230; maybe *that&#8217;s* what the Comment field GPG offers is for? Skeptics like me?

 [1]: http://www.lugatgt.org/articles/gpg/
 [2]: http://pgp.mit.edu:11371/pks/lookup?search=0x426B3C19&op=index
 [3]: http://pgp.mit.edu:11371/pks/lookup?op=get&search=0x426B3C19