---
title: CurlyEnc 0.1
author: Josh Street
layout: post
permalink: /2005/06/01/curlyenc-01/
categories:
  - PHP
tags:
  - HTML
  - PHP
  - word-processing software
  - WordPress administration
---
This is a simple WordPress plugin that allows you to copy and paste from word-processing software that automagically does smart quotes conversion (curly quotes). You can do this without using this plugin &#8211; but the characters aren&#8217;t proper HTML entities and it&#8217;s dirty. CurlyEnc converts curly quote characters to their proper HTML entity codes &#8211; something WordPress does perfectly fine with normal quotation marks, but not with these ones.

Simply upload CurlyEnc into your `plugins` directory and enable it from the Plugins section of your WordPress administration panel, and it should* work.

* No guarantees, no promises. If your weblog sprouts furry ears and starts chasing your mouse, so to speak, I accept no responsibility. Yada yada. Happy to *try* and help. More seriously, I don&#8217;t know that much about character encoding, so I wouldn&#8217;t be entirely surprised if my magical character is something of a dud on some installations. I know it&#8217;s a good concept, and this is my best implementation of it &#8211; if anyone else has a better idea as to how it should be done, please share!

On a related note, it&#8217;s released under the [GNU <acronym title="General Public Licence">GPL</acronym>][1] &#8212; you can have that five lines of code for free! Sorry, no steak knives.

View [the PHP source][2], or download a [plain text version][3].

 [1]: http://www.opensource.org/licenses/gpl-license.php
 [2]: /blog/wp-content/2005/06/curlyenc.phps
 [3]: /blog/wp-content/2005/06/curlyenc.txt