---
title: From NZ
author: Josh Street
layout: post
permalink: /2005/11/21/from-nz/
categories:
  - General
  - Life
tags:
  - animation
  - geriatrics
  - Linux
  - Ubuntu
  - Windows
---
Hi there.

Just writing to let you all know I&#8217;m alive, or something. Maybe just to admit I couldn&#8217;t stay away from a computer? Whatever! ;-)

I&#8217;m on a coin-op terminal in the YHA, coz it&#8217;s too miserable to walk to a real net-cafe in town (there are plenty). Which means I&#8217;m on a keyboard that looks as though it were designed by someone on heavy, heavy drugs. That is, it&#8217;s completely unusable. Actually, come to think of it, maybe they weren&#8217;t on drugs and needed to be. Either way, typing is painful.

So this is going to be quick. 

Milford walk was good, very relaxing so far as such things go. It was vaguely full of geriatrics (sp? I can&#8217;t check, because this bloody terminal can&#8217;t even open a new window, let alone tabs), but I hid behind my two cameras the whole time so all was good. 300+ pictures on digital alone, nearly four rolls of 35mm film.

Major problem with the 1GB card. Linux read it fine, the camera read it fine, Windows decides it&#8217;s going to&#8230; erm&#8230; I&#8217;ll say &#8220;act like usual&#8221; to avoid expletives. Basically it didn&#8217;t come preformatted, but I didn&#8217;t notice because the camera didn&#8217;t have a problem and neither, I think, did my desktop (Ubuntu) at home. So as much as I&#8217;d love to share a photo or 400, I can&#8217;t. Not yet, anyway.

After the walk, we went white-water rafting and I did this Canyon Swing thing&#8230; which is like a combination of freefall and an enormous swing. It&#8217;s 100 and a bit metres high, about 60 of which is freefall. Good stuff. I have photos to prove it, but seeing as I can&#8217;t be bothered walking places (i.e. to a place where I can plug in my camera &#8212; ha ha, it&#8217;s not working because all these places run Windows &#8212; or use a scanner, because I have hard-copy) it&#8217;s impossible to share just yet. It&#8217;ll happen.

I don&#8217;t know when I&#8217;m next going to be at a computer because we&#8217;re gonna start driving around the country in a day or two, so next post might be sometime in December after I get back!

Oh, yeah, and I might have possibly moderated a comment or two. The spammers have been nice-ish. Time&#8217;s up on this piece of junk. The clock is doing some stupid key-trapping animation thing to stop me from actually using it in the last minute. Doh!