---
title: MacPro
author: Josh Street
layout: post
permalink: /2006/08/08/macpro/
categories:
  - Geek
tags:
  - currently-stored online blog entries
  - dell
  - harddrive and various software licenses
  - Kernel
  - Linux
  - Mac
  - RAM
  - Ubuntu
  - Windows
---
It&#8217;s kinda nice and all, but seriously, so expensive. I&#8217;m sure the parts are all really high quality, but that I can source pretty much all upgrade options offered for half the price or less &#8212; for example, adding a meagre two 512MB sticks costs an obscene $AU499, whilst even the most ridiculous gamer-marketed RAM (you know the stuff, it&#8217;s supposedly &#8216;tuned&#8217; in pairs, etc.) can be had for $135 for two 512MB sticks (OCZ brand) &#8212; is rather telling about their horrific markup.

And yeah, I&#8217;m sure it&#8217;s all great quality and magically never crashes and all the rest of that marketing crap. Good for you guys. I&#8217;m gonna wander back over the other side of the room here and install Windows on my equally-powerful system for, oh, about 40% of the cost. And don&#8217;t get me started on the absurd cost of your monitors. I can pick up an equivalent Dell 30&#8243; for $600 less than your offering&#8230; and if I&#8217;m content with a meagre 23&#8243; then I can get a **24&#8243;** Dell for $400 less! Even the 20&#8243; screens are $500 apart. Seriously, it&#8217;s completely unjustifiable and no-one in their right mind should be prepared to spend that much more for a brand.

Sigh.

I need to open a buy-a-new-computer account and start putting money into it. Well not really&#8230; I just need a new harddrive and various software licenses I guess. I think I&#8217;d miss Ubuntu too much (maybe)&#8230; I don&#8217;t even know why, nearly everything I can do here I can do in Windows (haha &#8211; does anyone else notice the beautiful inversion of that argument? I actually think I&#8217;ve been running Linux for too many years now to have posted about it in any currently-stored online blog entries! Crazy) except anything requiring a terminal. That&#8217;s almost definitely my greatest frustration, but no matter. I need software that doesn&#8217;t run in Linux and is too intensive to work well in virtualized conditions. Best option for me would be to get a whole separate computer, but then&#8230; well, this thing can feel flaky after being on for two weeks. Windows I&#8217;d probably get that every two days or so, but at least I&#8217;d think to reboot. Here, I just kill processes and at worst logout. Kernel patches are the only thing taking this down, basically.

Moral of the story&#8230; something like don&#8217;t waste your money on a shiny new Mac.