---
title: Why does true North keep shifting?
author: Josh Street
layout: post
permalink: /2006/10/13/why-does-true-north-keep-shifting/
categories:
  - ATC
---
It&#8217;s the same sort of pissed-off as when fiction makes you cry. It&#8217;s the pissed-off that says Why should I deal with this, it exists in a realm outside of me. Map change time. Then, of a sudden, it comes sharply into focus and hits you square between the eyes, in a way only depth perception can provide. Its scope is suddenly crystallised and defined sharply (not in any way to make &#8216;relief&#8217; implicit) and it becomes, most definitely, one&#8217;s own problem. One as in son-of-man is not. How&#8217;s that for convoluted? The problem lands squarely back on this side of the court, and the frustration of it always coming back slowly subsides. Maybe it&#8217;s time to play ball-boy. Not in a temper-tantrum-look-at-me-I-stole-all-the-balls-and-now-try-playing-with-scrunched-up-newspaper-instead-I-dare-you kind of way, either. Definitely without that element of party-pooper (or extreme hyphenation). It&#8217;s time to use short, clear sentences, speak clearly, avoiding the weirdness of expectations of weirdness [sic. - not a late night typo] and acting not as cudgeller but leaving the usual implements firmly tied to the ground. By the way, this is not bloody leisure. Don&#8217;t delude yourselves into believing this a *faisandé* &#8211; though it is that, in parts, perhaps &#8211; it goes beyond artifice. Art and pretense extend beyond what is known and make mansos of about half of us (though perhaps to say &#8216;make&#8217; is an incomplete rendering of the problem). But then the artists &#8216;do a mizzle&#8217; (look it up, this is slang from 1910-30&#8242;s, not a product of all ma homies) and with them their art, and suddenly&#8230; suddenly what? Suddenly, we&#8217;re (plural first person) back to not having a clue what the way forward should be. Leave your painting as a compass. Oh, but it is a sculpture. Installation art. Post-modern crap. Why does true North keep shifting?