---
title: Home
author: Josh Street
layout: post
permalink: /2006/04/28/home/
categories:
  - General
tags:
  - Commission of European Communities
---
Finally got everything back home tonight (thanks for help Selo!) which was good. Not that I&#8217;m going to be around long enough to even setup these mixers. Oh, yeah, I bought mixers. Haven&#8217;t had time to blog about that yet. (Does anyone else get the irony of blogging about not having enough time?) I&#8217;ll be away at Kyckstart for the weekend, which seemed like a good idea at the time (it&#8217;s just that I later realised that&#8217;s this weekend, EU Arts fac weekend away is next weekend, and I didn&#8217;t really have a holiday in &#8220;holidays&#8221; at all). Meanwhile, uni assessments hover over the horizon (I suppose), and parenthetical comments don&#8217;t particularly help.

I should sleep before midnight sometime, but any chance of reading for pleasure would be abandoned in such an action. I miss that. It is now an expectation that literature will be boring, the only entertainment arising from an idea, a muse that stems from analysis: the magic of narrative abandoned. There is an expected path for all things, and no beauty is seen in the language employed&#8211;readings assume an anticipated form, for they are readings, not things to be read. For those, there is little time. *The light glows brightest just before it blows*&#8230; Ondaatje? I checked. The chase was thrilling, finding language that was not wholly alien and concepts that were beautifully expressed. There is no middle-english rhetoric for emphasis. We mightn&#8217;t be the pinnacle of civilisation, but it&#8217;s easy for things to feel that way when juxtaposing certain texts (this is not a blanket statement).

This post is winding down towards sleep, just clearing ideas. Anzac ideas are still there&#8230; again, not a blanket statement (I can&#8217;t think lucidly enough at present to post about it, so it may slip from my consciousness for a while&#8230; later.). A sequence of ideas drawn from snippets of experience. Which is, really, all we have. Exposition will come *at some point* though we know not when. Is it futile to rush that experience of discovery? Probably. It will come as equal shock irrespective of age, perhaps, to learn that there is deviation from what one perceives as &#8216;real&#8217;, &#8216;normal&#8217;. It is all fascinating.

Balancing that discovery with the development of skills is something else altogether. Where is there time for passive application? &lt;rant about time deleted&gt;

Next week things will improve. Apparently uni students never develop normal sleeping patterns whilst still studying. Tempting not to bother trying ;-) <\/rant>&lt;rant about assessments deleted&gt;

Now&#8230; I must pack and then sleep. Or sleep and pack tomorrow morning. I know other people have far greater commitments and are juggling far more at present, which is&#8230; simultaneously humbling and incomprehensible. It should be a good weekend. <\/rant>