---
title: IE7 Beta 2
author: Josh Street
layout: post
permalink: /2006/02/01/ie7-beta-2/
categories:
  - Geek
  - Web Standards
tags:
  - extra software
  - HTML
  - Internet Explorer
  - Mac
  - tab group
---
For:

*   Font rendering. This is how ClearType should have worked years ago.
*   Improved standards compliance. The [Sunrise Family][1] site (live) now works with IE7 near-perfectly (i.e. no more or less broken than most other browsers. On par with Firefox, worse than Opera and Safari.) Happy happy happy!
*   Zoom. Note this is SEPARATE to font sizing. But it&#8217;s still a little broken.
*   Homepage tab group isn&#8217;t an extension or extra software that needs to be added. Whenever you add a homepage, IE prompts you if you want to make this your ACTUAL homepage or add it to the opening group of tabs. Playing catch-up, sure, but a good feature nonetheless

Against:

*   Font rendering. It&#8217;d be great if it could intelligently antialias only san-serif fonts, and *not* process fixed-width or serifed fonts, which it invariably makes &#8220;fuzzy&#8221; rather than clearer. Also, font rendering seems to be smaller by default, which is both a good thing &#8212; it&#8217;ll force designers to make their base font sizes bigger &#8212; and a bad thing &#8212; in that, obviously, those designers that don&#8217;t conform will be subjecting users to painfully small text :-(
*   Interface. Kudos for thinking outside the square, or whatever, but I reckon people are going to struggle getting used to this. I know I will, but that&#8217;s probably because I switch between at least five different browsers daily and expect them to all behave about the same. I get confused when going between Mac and PC, mostly, because the keyboard shortcut bindings change from Apple/Start &#8212; I&#8217;m using a KVM &#8212; and control + [key] change, so Internet Explorer moving *anything* around is bad for me, unless everyone else follows suit.
*   Broken zoom resizes images + elements in HTML fine, but on one of my sites struggles resizing the background on the body (or maybe html?) element. Also, it doesn&#8217;t keep (all) centered sites centered once you zoom. This will obviously have to be fixed for the final release, too. I searched their newsgroup and couldn&#8217;t find anything so [I posted something about it quickly][2]. Vote for it, please :-)

 [1]: http://sunrisefamily.com.au/
 [2]: http://www.microsoft.com/communities/newsgroups/list/en-us/default.aspx?dg=microsoft.public.internetexplorer.general&tid=42be81fd-c05e-4b16-bac5-3976493b33a0&cat=en_us_28cca3eb-7037-4d4f-bde1-d8efee1f1420&lang=en&cr=us&sloc=en-us&m=1&p=1