---
title: Not there
author: Josh Street
layout: post
permalink: /2006/10/19/not-there/
categories:
  - General
---
I feel like I&#8217;m making stuff up, and that this is a load of rubbish that has very little bearing on intended (or realised) meaning. But it doesn&#8217;t do well to tell someone that their discipline (linguistic analysis, it seems) masqurading as English is completely unhelpful and generally full of crap. This feels so much like &#8220;close textual referencing&#8221; in the Advanced HSC course. Extension was sensible and was far more concerned with the context and comprehension of a text&#8230; this, I suppose, pretends to touch on comprehension but in practice seems to be far more about composition without any regard for context. Yet, somehow, we&#8217;re not meant to argue against the grain. This sorcery is enough to make me want to abandon the subject altogether &#8212; the subject of this analysis is a dead horse, and I am neither a jockey nor a necromancer. Still to conjure: several hundred words. Why? About what? There is nothing useful here! Empty parallels and distinctions have no bearing on meaning or characterisation! If it only asked for a contrast between the two, that would be fine. The idea that grammatical analysis makes a (meaningful) contribution to this particular excerpt is, at best, farcical. And I am venting here so hopefully I do so less in the essay proper. I so don&#8217;t get this subject.

Later: Well, the fiction is over. I don&#8217;t want to think about the exam, though at least that is limited in the scope of rubbish expected. I&#8217;m having one of those I-really-want-to-take-a-semester-off/drop uni nights.