---
title: 'Adobe Production Studio: Back in Mac'
author: Josh Street
layout: post
permalink: /2007/01/21/1253/
categories:
  - Geek
  - Visual
tags:
  - Adobe
  - Adobe Systems Incorporated
  - C
  - California
  - Illustrator
  - integrated video and audio postproduction tool
  - Moscone Center
  - Production Studio
  - San Francisco
  - SAN JOSE
  - Studio
  - web professionals
  - Windows
---
I discovered this today. It upset me.

> SAN JOSE, Calif. — Jan. 4, 2007 — Adobe Systems Incorporated (Nasdaq:ADBE) today announced that the next version of Adobe® Production Studio, the integrated video and audio postproduction tool set that is part of the Creative Suite family, will be available for both the Macintosh and Windows® platforms. Film, video and web professionals currently using Adobe After Effects®, Adobe Photoshop® and Adobe Illustrator® on the Mac will soon be able to harness the power of completely new Macintosh releases of Adobe Premiere® Pro, Adobe Encore® DVD and Adobe Soundbooth™ &#8212; all key components of an upcoming milestone revision to Adobe Production Studio. The software will have its first public demonstration during the Macworld 2007 Conference and Exhibition at The Moscone Center in San Francisco, January 9 – 12 (Booth 901). The next release of Adobe Production Studio is expected to ship in mid-2007.

Are they *trying* to convince me to buy a Mac? Ever since someone showed me what you can do with Objective C and Quartz to any video source on a Mac I&#8217;ve been wishing it were practical to buy one and use it for everything I wanted to, but couldn&#8217;t bring myself to consider FCP on account of lack of snazzy integration. Ah well. I&#8217;m sure something else will crop up before the elusively-dated &#8220;mid-2007&#8243; to help me reconsider&#8230;