---
title: Erasure
author: Josh Street
layout: post
permalink: /2008/06/03/erasure/
categories:
  - Life
tags:
  - beichuan
  - china
  - earthquake
  - grief
  - hope
  - jesus
  - Judge
  - loss
  - memory
  - olympics
  - sichuan
  - sin
---
many of these things will not last, should not be expected to last. the lack of permanence is characteristic of volatile information, preserved only fleetingly even at a minus 25 degree boiling point.

we forget.

sometimes not soon enough, painlessly enough, loudly enough. as though our protest will make it sooner, easier, clearer. clearing these clouds to what end? dispelling an illusion alone? concentrating precipitation at some other time, in some other place? seeding rainfall is an imprecise science, you know. beijing would like to think otherwise &#8212; will have the world think otherwise, but we will have to wait until the eighth hour of the eighth day to learn &#8212; or at least observe the culmination of many factors not totally understood.

our control is at best imprecise.

rumours of tesla weapons and unheeded seismologists and toads are one thing, but the burial of thousands and grief to families and subsequent suicides and infertilities and abandonments are quite another. as, too, are rescues and outpourings of compassion and global relief efforts and prayers of thousands, at least some of which are being heard.

the opportunists? the profiteers?

&#8220;no man has power to retain the spirit, or power over the day of death&#8221; (Ecc 8:8) &#8212; so let them lie and cheat. let the cheaters lie. they are digging their own pit.

why do good things happen to evil people?

it was not always like this. it will not remain like this.

&#8220;he [Jesus of Nazareth] is the one appointed by God to be judge of the living and the dead&#8221; (Acts 10:42)

but he, too, makes us at peace with him through paying the price for us on the cross. &#8220;[God] reconciles to himself all things, whether on earth or in heaven, making peace by the blood of his cross.&#8221; (Col 1:20)

&#8220;Surely I am coming soon.&#8221; (Rev 22:20)

come, Lord Jesus!